well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about studies and how to pick the right
one to put your faith that I said
somebody asked me like I've been
following you a long time I've never
seen you like buy into a study and then
it get debunked how do you do that
and I'd never thought about it until the
person asked there's a number of steps
that I go through apparently
subconsciously until now the the one is
the obvious you know one of them is very
obvious is it peer-reviewed you know had
other have other researchers looked at
it have they tried to poke holes in it
yet what was the sample size this is all
the normal stuff II asked a larger
sample size is almost always better ten
people is not representative of 10
million how did they recruit their
participants like if you wanted to do a
study on how the average American felt
about Trump you wouldn't want to conduct
the poll in these comment sections you
get a skewed result so what was the
methodology so that's all one the second
part is understanding that studies
aren't really there normally to fully
answer a question they're not there to
draw a conclusion they're there to
provide more information so you can
combine it with other stuff to draw a
conclusion it's very rare to find a
study that truly and fully answer
something the third thing to look for is
what are they actually measuring because
this is how people skew things a lot I
lived in a community that moves that
time the bars closed from 4 a.m. to 2
a.m. a year later they released a study
saying you know from 4 to 5 a.m. we had
less wrecks just like we said we were
going to we saved lives except the
number of wrecks didn't go down
they just occurred
between 2:00 a.m. and 3:00 a.m. instead
of 4 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. that's a that is
a very common way of skewing a study to
produce the results you want be certain
you know what they're measuring but the
first thing I do and I think the most
important thing is I ask myself if
there's another reason for the apparent
conclusion a common-sense reason good
example in the United States women who
own horses live longer is there a causal
relationship there maybe you know maybe
horses cost you to exercise and
therefore you live longer
maybe because horses are funny that make
you laugh and that makes you live longer
or more likely most women and men in the
United States who own a horse while
they're not cowboys and cowgirls they
own the horse for leisure it's not for
work owning a horse is not cheap if you
don't have a work reason for the horse
it's a hobby and it's not a it's not a
cheap hobby when you're talking about
food even if you have pasture you have
to count the cost of the land on the
barn the vets and eventually got to get
a horse it's expensive so if you can
afford a horse for leisure you can
probably afford health insurance that
will probably make you live longer
no no huge mystery there and that one's
funny there's one that's a little more
relevant because it's going around right
now and I don't have a lot of faith in
the study and you'll see why here in a
second in Europe eighty percent of the
people who succumb who didn't make it
from what's going around right now
they lived in areas with high air
pollution specifically no.2 which comes
from certain types of automobiles almost
eighty percent seventy eight percent to
be exact that seems significant 80
percents high that is high it's worth
paying attention to
however where does most air pollution
occur does it occur out here in the
country does it a current urban areas
occurs in urban areas what percent of
your population lives in urban areas
almost eighty percent so it's actually
it's the baseline it's seventy four
percent exactly but uh so you only have
a four percent variance from what you
would expect and to me it's surprising
that it's not actually higher because in
urban areas you're more tightly you know
packed together it seems like it would
be easier to transmit and do you also
have better health care in urban areas
you have bigger hospitals they're more
immediate they're closer than if you
live in a rural area so I don't put a
lot of faith in that study
I haven't even sat down or read the
whole thing because the statistics are
what you would expect
so I would need to see something
involving rates as far as you know per
capita rural versus urban and per capita
high air pollution versus low air
pollution because right now eighty
percent of the people who didn't make it
live where eighty percent of people live
that's that's not really informative
that doesn't suggest a causal link to me
there could be more research on that
though because it makes sense it's a
long thing and you breathe in pollution
but that study alone doesn't do it for
me she's not one I would put faith in so
that's that's my process the last thing
I covered that's the first question I
asked before I even really get into a
study unless there's a really huge
variance unless there's something that's
really surprising yeah I look for I look
for another reason for whatever the
apparent conclusion is first and if
there is another reason a common-sense
reason the study has to be spectacular
for me to put any stock in hit at all
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night